>> Will Sentance: Today,
we start with principles of JavaScript.
JavaScript is not that fancy,
it does two things.
One, it goes through our code,
line by line.
There's a block of code we're
gonna work through right now.
It goes through it line by line, and
does each of the line of code,
they call this the thread of execution.
It threads its way down and executes,
that's a fancy word for doing the code,
as it goes,
that's feature one of JavaScript.
Feature two of JavaScript is
the stuff that it encounters,
if it's saying save something,
like a variable, or a constant, or
even some code itself,
known as a function.
Well, it saves that stuff
in the computer's memory,
to come back to later on and use.
All right, and this area here,
people, I'm gonna capture,
just as JavaScript does under the hood.
All of the stuff that's being stored,
as we go through the code, line by line.
This isn't magic, this isn't me creating
an abstraction of what's happening,
this is literally what's happening,
I mean, not obviously, visually.
But this is every line
we're storing as we go.
And that's all that stuff we
encounter is stored into the memory.
This is the fancy word in JavaScript,
in programming,
for the place in which we store data.
And so, here we go, who is gonna
have the honor of doing line one?
Was it Kyla?
Kayla, line one,
what are we doing with our code here?
Verbalize it for me, Kyla.
>> off screen female: You're
defining a constant called num.
>> Will Sentance: Beautiful, and?
>> off screen female: Three.
>> Will Sentance: And
assigning it the value three.
There it is, people, that means,
from now on if we see num in our code,
we know that it’s gonna go look and
find the value, what Kayla?
>> off screen female: 3.
>> Will Sentance: 3, she’s spot on.
Excellent to Kayla for
being the first person to be called upon.
Next line, now I turn to Matt.
>> off screen male: We’re defining
the function multiply by two.
>> Will Sentance: Thank you Matt, exactly.
And this is to say, people, when we
define a function, there's two parts.
There's our identifier,
that is the fancy word for the label for
anything you're storing
in computer's memory.
The identifier here is multiplied by two,
the identifier before was num.
I recently learned this word,
the identifier,
and we then take all
the code of the function.
We're not gonna run any of it right now.
We're gonna take it, bundle it up,
and store it in the computer's memory,
like a string of characters,
all the code of that function.
I'm not gonna write all that code out,
but literally imagine it all saved here.
Instead, I'm gonna represent it
with this little box with an f in,
that represents the function.
There you go, all right.
And therefore, our thread of execution,
the fancy feature of JavaScript,
that can take the code, do it, take
the code, do it, take the code, do it.
Now weaves down to where, Braden.
What does it hit next?
>> off screen male: It
defines the variable output.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, I'm gonna call it
constant, people tend to seem to be using
variable as a generic term for
label plus data, identifier plus data.
But think about it,
it literally means, I can vary
the data that I store in that label.
And with a constant I can't vary,
I can't take away what I had stored there
before and store something else there.
We'll see more about that later on.
So let's say we declare a constant output,
excellent.
Now Braden,
what am I gonna store in output?
Do I know yet?
>> off screen male: No.
>> Will Sentance: I don't,
exactly, because this right
hand side is what, Braden?
>> off screen male: It's to your function.
>> Will Sentance: It's-
>> off screen male: A function call.
>> Will Sentance: Function call,
excellent from Dan.
Excellent from Dan.
A call to a function, it's a command.
I can only store values,
that's fixed, final things.
I can't store a go do some work.
Dan, what tells me this right
hand side is a command?
>> off screen male: The parenthesis.
>> Will Sentance: Parenthesis,
exactly, exactly, right.
So for now,
it's gonna remain uninitialized.
This is in contrast to the old
days where it's undefined.
Because again, if you're declaring
a constant output, if we saved the literal
data undefined here, well then we
wouldn't be able to change it out for
the value that comes
back from the function.
So now we just say it's not
really even fully stored yet.
I'm gonna show it here, but
it's not got any value in it yet.
Okay, so we wouldn't even, if we were to
inside the running and multiply by two
try and log output, we wouldn't see
undefined, we'd just see it's not there.
Okay, while we head off and
run multiply by two.
Everybody be ready because this is
the core feature of JavaScript.
This is the moment that
you've all been waiting for.
We're gonna call it with num.
Kayla, what does num evaluate to?
What value does it turn into?
>> off screen female: Three.
>> Will Sentance: Three, well done.